1)  .NET FRAMEWORK:
 A framework (in programming terms) is really a collection of Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) and a shared library of code that developers can call when developing applications, so that they don’t have to write the code from scratch. In the .NET Framework, that library of shared code is named the Framework Class Library (FCL). The bits of code in the shared library can perform all kinds of different functions. Say, for example, a developer needed their application to be able to ping another IP address on the network. Instead of writing that code themselves, and then writing all the little bits and pieces that have to interpret what the ping results mean, they can use code from the library that performs that function.
2) MSIL: Microsoft Intermediate Language 

It is a set of CPU independent instructions that are generated by the language compiler when the project is compiled. MSIL code is not executable but further 
processed by CLR/other runtime environments before it becomes executable. 
MSIL is contained in the assembly of the .NET application. 
3) JIT:
The Just-In-Time (JIT) compiler is a component of the Java Runtime Environment that improves the performance of Java applications at run time.
Java programs consist of classes, which contain platform-neutral byte codes that can be interpreted by a JVM on many different computer architectures. At run time, the JVM loads the class files, determines the semantics of each individual byte code, and performs the appropriate computation. The additional processor and memory usage during interpretation means that a Java application performs more slowly than a native application. The JIT compiler helps improve the performance of Java programs by compiling bytecodes into native machine code at run time.
The JIT compiler is enabled by default, and is activated when a Java method is called. The JIT compiler compiles the bytecodes of that method into native machine code, compiling it "just in time" to run. When a method has been compiled, the JVM calls the compiled code of that method directly instead of interpreting it. Theoretically, if compilation did not require processor time and memory usage, compiling every method could allow the speed of the Java program to approach that of a native application.
4) CLR
The Common Language Runtime (CLR), the virtual machine component of Microsoft's .NET framework, manages the execution of .NET programs. A process known as just-in-time compilation converts compiled code into machine instructions which the computer's CPU then executes. The CLR provides additional services including memory management, type safety, exception handling, garbage collection, security and thread management. All programs written for the .NET framework, regardless of programming language, are executed by the CLR. All versions of the .NET framework include CLR.
5) GAC:
Each computer where the common language runtime is installed has a machine-wide code cache called the global assembly cache. The global assembly cache stores assemblies specifically designated to be shared by several applications on the computer.
You should share assemblies by installing them into the global assembly cache only when you need to. As a general guideline, keep assembly dependencies private, and locate assemblies in the application directory unless sharing an assembly is explicitly required. In addition, it is not necessary to install assemblies into the global assembly cache to make them accessible to COM interop or unmanaged code.

6) PORTABILITY IN .NET
The portability is achieved in .net. Here, the source code is converted into the code called Intermediate code, then this intermediate code is executed on all platforms regardless of what the operating system.
7)DIFFERENCE BETWEEN DLL AND .EXE
 DDL:  A dynamic-link library (DLL) is a module that contains functions and data that can be used by another module (application or DLL). It is Microsoft's implementation of the shared library concept in the Microsoft Windows and OS/2 operating systems
.EXE: EXE is a common filename extension for an executable file (a program) in Microsoft Windows and other operating systems (e.g. DOS, OpenVMS, Symbian, and OS/2).

